What is the Claims Review Procedure?

Upon the denial of your claim for benefits, you may file your claim for review, in writing, with the Administrator.

  (a) YOU MUST FILE THE CLAIM FOR REVIEW NO LATER THAN 60 DAYS AFTER YOU HAVE RECEIVED WRITTEN
  NOTIFICATION OF THE DENIAL OF YOUR CLAIM FOR BENEFITS.
  HOWEVER, IF YOUR CLAIM IS FOR DISABILITY BENEFITS AND DISABILITY IS DETERMINED BY A PHYSICIAN,
  THEN INSTEAD OF THE ABOVE, YOU MUST FILE THE CLAIM FOR REVIEW NO LATER THAN 180 DAYS FOLLOWING
  RECEIPT OF NOTIFICATION OF AN ADVERSE BENEFIT DETERMINATION.

  (b) You may submit written comments, documents, records, and other information relating to your claim for benefits.

  (c) You may review all pertinent documents relating to the denial of your claim and submit any issues and comments, in writing, to
  the Administrator.

  (d) You will be provided, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records, and other
  information relevant to your claim for benefits.

  (e) Your claim for review must be given a full and fair review. This review will take into account all comments, documents, records,
  and other information submitted by you relating to your claim, without regard to whether such information was submitted or
  considered in the initial benefit determination.


In addition to the Claims Review Procedure above, if your claim is for disability benefits and disability is determined by a physician, then
the Claims Review Procedure provides that:

  (a) Your claim will be reviewed without deference to the initial adverse benefit determination and the review will be conducted by
  an appropriate named fiduciary of the Plan who is neither the individual who made the adverse benefit determination that is the
  subject of the appeal, nor the subordinate of such individual.

  (b) In deciding an appeal of any adverse benefit determination that is based in whole or part on medical judgment, the appropriate
  named fiduciary will consult with a health care professional who has appropriate training and experience in the field of medicine
  involved in the medical judgment.

  (c) Any medical or vocational experts whose advice was obtained on behalf of the Plan in connection with your adverse benefit
  determination will be identified, without regard to whether the advice was relied upon in making the benefit determination.
  15

  (d) The health care professional engaged for purposes of a consultation under (b) above will be an individual who is neither an
  individual who was consulted in connection with the adverse benefit determination that is the subject of the appeal, nor the
  subordinate of any such individual.


The Administrator will provide you with written or electronic notification of the Plan's benefit determination on review. The Administrator
must provide you with notification of this denial within 60 days after the Administrator's receipt of your written claim for review, unless
the Administrator determines that special circumstances require an extension of time for processing your claim. If the Administrator
determines that an extension of time for processing is required, written notice of the extension will be furnished to you prior to the
termination of the initial 60-day period. In no event will such extension exceed a period of 60 days from the end of the initial period. The
extension notice will indicate the special circumstances requiring an extension of time and the date by which the Plan expects to render the
determination on review. However, if the claim relates to disability benefits and disability is determined by a physician, then 45 days will
apply instead of 60 days in the preceding sentences. In the case of an adverse benefit determination, the notification will set forth:

  (a) The specific reason or reasons for the adverse determination.

  (b) Reference to the specific Plan provisions on which the benefit determination is based.

  (c) A statement that you are entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents,
  records, and other information relevant to your claim for benefits.

  (d) In the case of disability benefits where disability is determined by a physician:

    (i) If an internal rule, guideline, protocol, or other similar criterion was relied upon in making the adverse determination, either
    the specific rule, guideline, protocol, or other similar criterion; or a statement that such rule, guideline, protocol, or other similar
    criterion was relied upon in making the adverse determination and that a copy of the rule, guideline, protocol, or other similar
    criterion will be provided to you free of charge upon request.

    (ii) If the adverse benefit determination is based on a medical necessity or experimental treatment or similar exclusion or limit,
    either an explanation of the scientific or clinical judgment for the determination, applying the terms of the Plan to your medical
    circumstances, or a statement that such explanation will be provided to you free of charge upon request.

If you have a claim for benefits which is denied, then you may file suit in a state or Federal court. However, in order to do so, you must file
the suit no later than 180 days after the Administrator makes a final determination to deny your claim.
